# Chennai-Desk
  Chennai Desk, an online public grievance application for the Municipal Corporation of Chennai is a user-friendly platform designed to provide easy access for people to view, register and interact with complaints in a simple and efficient manner. 
The mobile application has been developed using React Native and is supported by both Android and IOS. Chennai Desk holds a NoSQL database implemented using MongoDB for storage of user and complaint details. The application is based on a social-media based structure, where the user is able to view complaints registered by other users. The user can also interact with the complaints by liking it and is allowed to view the complete details of the registered complaint. The public complaints displayed in the dashboard of the application are retrieved from the database in two ways. The default way is based on the confidence sort algorithm where the complaints are retrieved according to the number of likes. The second way is a proximity-based data retrieval, where the registered complaints are retrieved based on proximity to the user's location. The retrieval of information from the database is facilitated by a backend server implemented using Python Flask framework. The server uses Nominatim Geocoding API for proximity-based complaint retrieval. 
The application allows users to submit both public and private complaints, giving them the option to do so with their real name or anonymously. The user is also able to track his/her registered complaints in real-time. The primary objective of the application is to ensure that the same grievances are not re-registered by different people by making public complaints visible to all users. With the E-Complaint Application. users can submit their complaints using their smartphones or computers. Once a complaint is registered, the application automatically forwards it to the relevant department or personnel responsible for addressing the issue. This direct communication facilitates efficient handling of complaints and reduces the response time: By implementing the E-Complaint Application, the Municipal Corporation of Chennai aims to enhance citizen participation, improve service delivery, and create a more responsive and accountable governance system.
